[Music]
the most astounding experience I've ever
had probably in my life was traveling
down to the Antarctic Peninsula to film
the killer whales for frozen planets it
was just the most remarkable experience
we were down there to try to find a Holy
Grail sequence something that has been
talked about for years and years but no
one ever really knew if it was something
that really happened or if it was
actually sort of you know just a legend
in Scotts
Diaries they had this remarkable
experience killer whales are seeming to
work as a team and approach the ice and
use a wave to knock off members of his
team but no one had ever really
scientifically recorded it let's say so
we were setting off with this challenge
to record this behavior that possibly
might not even exist we set off and
headed out in this phenomenal boat
called the Golden Fleece we had to cross
Drake's passage which is perhaps the
most dangerous passage of water in the
world you're on there for four days
non-stop rolling backwards and forwards
so it's just this real sense of
adventure as you're going across come
out of Drake's passage and then also
you're coming down the peninsula past
all these icebergs and really entering
into this icy world it was quite
phenomenal and the water can be super
glossy and the life around that you're
seeing you know these groups of penguins
you know heading out to fish in the
morning it was so exciting to be that
we've been out down there about a week
maybe eight days we were getting quite
despondent as to whether we were going
to see this behavior and then the
scientists Bob and John I heard them
shout and they said killer whales get
whales and and we knew we were with a
group so the only way we were ever going
to be able to keep up with these guys is
if we could get a satellite tag onto one
of the members of the family group it
attached on and that was fantastic
because that meant then we had this link
with this family grief killer
and we could follow them through the ice
that was really the key so we continued
south to get to the place where there
was a potential to get this behavior but
we still had no idea we were actually
gonna see it or if it really happened we
started following these guys and it was
within the first hour we could see this
really fascinating behavior of them
spyhopping individually they would just
poke their heads up and come up rise up
and just have a look around see what was
about and of course they were looking
for the seals and then when they saw one
when they found a seal or a group of
seals lying on the ice they made a
signal and the whole family would just
gather around this ice floe instead of
getting one killer whale coming up he
was starting 203 still we didn't really
know what was going on so we were
watching this behavior then why would
you know look that really interest the
seal maybe they're going to do something
all the killer whales just disappeared
and we were sort of looking at ourselves
and feeling quite happy that we've seen
this thing I was just climbing up to the
roof of the boat to take the cover of
our main camera the Cineflex camera and
I was halfway up and I heard this shout
wave oops I froze I just looked out and
there is this huge wave heading towards
the ice floe this seal and seals like
waking up and kind of looking and that
entire boat is just like like this and
the wave crashed out and that and we
just knew you know that was it we just
like the whole boat just went and we
just knew that was it this was the
behavior we were gonna get it and the
hunt was on I mean these guys they were
on it it was the most exciting thing
I've ever seen in my life and that day
we filmed I think two or three hunts I
mean they didn't stop he kept sending
these waves at the ice and the ice was
spinning around the steel was clinging
on and then being flipped off it was so
dramatic I mean they were whizzing
around
turning round teaming up again and then
diving down and swimming towards the ice
and who's creating these waves and it
was just it was incredible it was really
amazing we'd all witnessed something
that no one had ever seen before ever
and it just felt like this total window
onto another world and another time and
place it was the most unbelievable
privilege